# Tritium-Extraction-Unit
As part of a team of three for our UC Berkeley Capstone Project, we designed a tritium extraction system for fusion reactors under the guidance of Dr. Guanyu Su. The project was entirely simulation-based and involved modeling with Star-CCM+ and SolidWorks. None of us had used Star-CCM+ prior to this project.

Together, we developed a realistic model simulating the transport of tritium from FLiBe to the vacuum, including permeation through metallic walls. After jointly building the core model, I led a segment length sensitivity study to analyze how heat exchanger geometry influences tritium extraction efficiency.

Through this project, I gained hands-on experience in meshing, defining custom boundary conditions using user-defined equations, and working with passive scalars to simulate species transport.

Tritium is a fuel source for nuclear fusion power plants. Manufacturing tritium is exorbitantly expensive, and so modern fusion energy devices like Commonwealth Fusion System’s Affordable, Robust, and Compact fusion device are designed to utilize molten salt to produce it. One difficulty with this method of producing tritium is figuring out how to reclaim the tritium from the salt to be used in subsequent fuel cycles. This project aims to investigate potential geometries of Permeation Against Vacuum (PAV) heat exchangers that would drive tritium diffusion out of such molten salt, in particular FLiBe salt. PAV heat exchangers in particular are investigated because of the inherent concentration gradients that drive diffusion due to the presence of a vacuum. The team utilized Star-CCM+ computational fluid dynamics (CFD) software for physics modeling and analysis with the aim of discovering trends in designs that may or may not induce such tritium diffusion from the FLiBe salt. Performance of tritium transfer from the salt in a specific PAV design is quantified with the mass transfer constant, and the team discovered that there were minimal differences in tritium transfer when changing the channel diameters or orientations. But when changing the channel bend angle, a sharper angle aided in tritium extraction. Additionally, a slightly shorter segment length aided in tritium extraction. The results are promising and for future studies, the team recommends simulating or investigating different materials, types of heat exchangers, and performing a physical validation experiment. Since this project was fully focused on analysis using CFD, it would be worthwhile to conduct a physical experiment with a specific selected geometry such as the base case of 100 degrees and 4.75mm segment lengths to get a realistic assessment of its ability to transport tritium and to assess the validity of the project’s simulations. 

